Monrovia Municipal Code § 17.44.110 Mobile homes (RL Zone) and mobile office units

§ 17.44.110 MOBILE HOMES (RL ZONE) AND MOBILE OFFICE UNITS.
(A) Mobile homes. A mobile home may be used as a place of human habitation on RL zoned lots (to provide affordable housing and to increase the supply and variety of housing types in the city). The following conditions shall be applicable to mobile homes placed on RL zoned lots:
(1) A mobile home shall be certified under the National Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 USC 5401 et seq.) on a foundation system, pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 18551.
(2) A mobile home shall not have been altered in violation of any applicable codes.
(3) A mobile home shall be attached to a permanent foundation system in compliance with all applicable building regulations and Cal. Health and Safety Code § 18551.
(4) The Development Review Committee shall review the exterior aesthetic design of the mobile home to determine that the building will not be injurious or detrimental to the environmental or historic features of the immediate neighborhood in which the proposed mobile home is located, and thereby will not cause irreparable economic damage to property in the neighborhood, to the city and to its citizens.
(5) The mobile home shall be covered with an exterior material customarily used on conventional dwellings and approved by the Development Review Committee. The exterior covering material shall extend to the ground, except that when a solid concrete or masonry perimeter foundation is used, the exterior covering material need not extend below the top of the foundation. See also Chapter 15.32 for provisions relating to mobile home parks.
(6) The mobile home shall have a roof consisting of shingles or other material customarily used for conventional dwellings and shall be subject to Development Review Committee approval.
(7) The Development Review Committee may review specific architectural features of the mobile home that shall be limited to eaves, or roof with eaves, when in their opinion it is necessary to have it comparable with the dwellings in the area.
(8) A mobile home shall be subject to all provisions of the zoning ordinance applicable to residential single-family structures and be occupied only as a residential use type.
(9) Subsequent to applying for the required building permits, and prior to occupancy, the owner shall request a certification of occupancy be issued. Thereafter, any vehicle license plate, certificate of ownership, and certificate of registration issued by a state agency is to be surrendered to the appropriate state agencies. Any mobile home which is permanently attached with foundation to the ground must bear a California insignia or federal label pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 18550(b).
(10) Prior to installation of a mobile home on a permanent foundation system, the mobile home owner or a licensed contractor shall obtain a building permit from the Department of Communally Development. To obtain such a permit, the owner or contractor shall comply with all requirements of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 18551(a).
(B) Mobile office units. Pursuant to the granting of a conditional use permit by the commission, mobile office units may be temporarily used in the NC, C-R/S, O/RD/LM, BE, M, P/QP and appropriate PD zones. The Commission shall approve the use for one year with the possibility of extensions up to a maximum of five years. The following conditions must be satisfied before a conditional use permit can be granted:
(1) The proposed use for the mobile unit shall be permitted in the zone in which it is to be located.
(2) All requirements of this title for development in the zone in which the mobile unit is to be located shall be satisfied.
(3) The mobile unit shall be compatible in appearance with surrounding structures and improvements.
(`83 Code, § 17.44.110) (Ord. 94-03 § 6, 1994)
