Monrovia Municipal Code § 17.44.195 Tattoo establishments

§ 17.44.195 TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS.
(A) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish an appropriate review process for tattoo establishments and to mitigate any adverse conditions or impacts associated with such establishments.
(B) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms are defined as follows:
TATTOO. The act of placing an indelible mark or figure upon the human body by insertion of pigment under the skin or by production of scars. The term TATTOO shall not include the term PERMANENT MAKEUP ," as defined in § 17.08.030 of this code.
TATTOO ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment that applies tattoos or provides tattoo services as a primary or accessory use.
(C) Conditional use permit required. Tattoo establishments located in the zones specified in § 17.08.010 shall obtain a conditional use permit from the Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 17.52.230 through 17.52.320 of this code.
(D) Minor conditional use permit required for tattoo establishments that are an accessory use in the Historic Commercial Downtown (HCD) zone. A tattoo establishment shall be allowed as an accessory use in connection with retail (indoor) and service commercial uses, in the Historic Commercial Downtown (HCD) zone specified or in § 17.14.020 , provided that 20% or less of the business floor area of the primary use is used by the tattoo establishment and a minor conditional use permit has been approved by the Development Review Committee for the tattoo establishment pursuant to Chapter 17.52 of this code.
(1) Standards and conditions specific for tattoo establishment services as an accessory use. In addition to the following conditions, the Development Review Committee shall have the ability to modify and/or add conditions based on the review of each application.
(a) The applicant shall submit proof of consent from the property owner and primary business owner for the tattoo establishment.
(b) Tattoo establishment operations shall be located within the rear 50% of the primary business floor area.
(c) The visibility of the tattoo establishment shall be minimized from the street level.
(d) The tattoo establishment shall be limited to one tattoo station, and the station shall be visibly minimized within the interior floor area of the primary use.
(e) In the event that the primary use ceases to operate for 30 days, the minor CUP for the tattoo establishment shall become null and void.
(f) The tattoo establishment shall operate within the same hours of operation as the hours of operation of the primary use.
(E) Conditions for tattoo establishments services approved with a conditional use permit or a minor conditional use permit. In addition to the following conditions, the Planning Commission or Development Review Committee shall have the ability to modify and/or add conditions based on the review of each application. Standard conditions for tattoo establishments are as follows:
(1) The business shall comply with all standards and regulations of any state, county, and local laws and any applicable standards of the County of Los Angeles Department of Public Health.
(2) The approved floor plan is an integral part of the decision approving the conditional use permit or minor conditional use permit. All changes to the approved floor plan are required to be reviewed by the Planning Commission or Development Review Committee.
(3) Approval of the request does not constitute a business license. A business license is required and shall be obtained prior to commencement of business operations.
(4) All areas where the tattoo establishment is approved shall be available for inspection by the Police Department during all business hours.
(Ord. 2018-03 § 8, 2018)
