Monrovia Municipal Code § 17.44.060 Family day care home (large)

§ 17.44.060 FAMILY DAY CARE HOME (LARGE).
The following performance standards shall apply to the review of family day care home large:
(A) Not less than ten days prior to the date of the review by the committee, written notice of the proposed use by mail or delivery to all owners shown on the last equalized assessment roll as owning real property within a 100-foot radius of the exterior boundaries of the proposed site shall be given. If the applicant or person(s) notified request a hearing, a Development Review Committee meeting will be scheduled and renotification of the property owners within a 100-foot radius shall be given no less than ten days prior to the meeting. If a hearing is not requested, the Committee will review administratively.
(B) Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. The Committee may approve alternative hours of operation, provided that it would not be a burden on the surrounding residential uses, and provided that the applicant demonstrates that the hours listed above would result in an unreasonable hardship to customers utilizing the service.
(C) There shall be no more than one large family day care permitted within a radius of 1,000 feet of any other such facility. The Committee may permit more than one such facility within a 1,000-foot radius, provided that it can be determined that it would not have an adverse impact to the neighborhood.
(D) To reduce noise impacts, a six-foot-high fence or wall to enclose the yard areas and on-site landscaping may be required.
(E) The Committee shall review the existing and potential increase in traffic and passenger loading to determine that it will not significantly impact the neighborhood and compromise the safety of the children being cared for at the facility.
(F) On-site parking shall not be required except for that required for the residential building.
(G) The location of the outdoor play area shall be reviewed in relation to its proximity to surrounding residential buildings and its potential impact.
(H) A fee to cover the cost of postage for the 100-foot radius notification shall be paid by the applicant at the time the request is filed with the Planning Division.
(`83 Code, § 17.44.060) (Ord. 94-03 § 6, 1994)
