Monrovia Municipal Code § 17.44.105 Massage establishments

§ 17.44.105 MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
(A) Purpose . The purpose of this section is to allow businesses other than massage establishments, such as nail salons, beauty shops, and barber shops, to offer massage services as an accessory use in zones where such businesses’ primary use is permitted but massage establishments are prohibited.
(B) Definitions . For purposes of this section, the following terms are defined:
(1) MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on, or friction against, or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating the external parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance with or without such supplementary aids as: rubbing alcohol; liniment; antiseptic; oil; powder; cream; lotion; ointment or other similar preparations commonly used in the practice of massage. The terms “bodywork,” “massage services,” and “massage therapy” are included within this definition. MASSAGE includes, but is not limited to: any bath; facial massage; foot massage; fomentations massage; electric or magnetic treatment; shiatsu; alcohol rubs; Russian, Swedish, and Turkish baths; acupressure; and other related actions.
(2) Massage establishment. Any establishment having a fixed place of business where any person engages in, conducts, carries on, or permits to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, whether as a primary or secondary or ancillary activity, any activity set forth in the definition of “massage” in Chapter 5.24 of this code. Any establishment engaged in, conducting, carrying on, or permitting any combination of massage and bath facilities, including but not limited to, showers, baths, wet and dry heat rooms, pools and hot tubs, shall be deemed a MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT .
(C) Massage services as secondary or ancillary activity . Any business located in zones specified in § 17.08.010 that devotes 20% or less of its building area to the provision of massage services shall be allowed subject to the approval of a minor conditional use permit from the Development Review Committee pursuant to Chapter 17.52 of this code.
(D) Applicability of massage regulations . Any business that offers massage services as a secondary or ancillary activity shall be deemed a massage establishment for purposes of Chapter 5.24 of this code.
(Ord. 2011-05 § 16, 2011; Ord. 2018-03 § 7, 2018)
