Monrovia Municipal Code § 17.44.170 Senior citizen housing

§ 17.44.170 SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING.
(A) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide minimum standards for the orderly development of housing units designed expressly for senior citizens consistent with established community values and policies.
(B) Use permit required. Senior citizen housing shall be permitted only in those zoning districts which designate such housing as a permitted conditional use. These standards are intended to be imposed on all conditional use permits approved for senior citizen housing and represent the minimum compliance necessary for approval.
(C) Definitions. As used in this section:
CONVALESCENT HOME OR NURSING HOME/REST HOME. Premises operated as a boarding home, and in which nursing, dietary and other personal services are furnished to convalescents, invalids, and non-ambulatory aged persons. It does not include premises in which persons suffering from a mental sickness, disease, disorder or ailment or where surgical or other primary treatments are performed, such as are customarily provided in sanitariums or hospitals or in which persons are kept or served who normally would be admissible to a mental hospital.
SENIOR CITIZEN. A person 55 years of age or older residing in a senior citizen housing development.
SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING; CONGREGATE CARE. A senior citizen housing development having a common dining facility and limited kitchen facilities in the individual living units.
SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING; INDIVIDUAL LIVING. A senior citizen housing development comprised of independent self-contained dwelling units having one or more rooms with private bath and kitchen facilities.
(D) Minimum dwelling unit size. The following minimum dwelling unit size standards shall apply to all senior citizen housing developments;
(1) Congregate care senior housing:
(a) Studio apartment: 350 square feet;
(b) One-bedroom apartment: 400 square feet;
(c) Two-bedroom apartment: 550 square feet.
(2) Convalescent home: as prescribed by state law.
(3) Individual living senior housing:
(a) One-bedroom: 450 square feet;
(b) Two-bedroom: 600 square feet.
(E) Parking. The following minimum parking standards shall apply to all senior citizen housing developments:
(1) Congregated care senior housing: one parking space for every four beds/non-enclosed.
(2) Convalescent home: one unenclosed space for every five beds.
(3) Individual living senior housing/apartments and condominiums: one space per unit and one guest space for every ten units. A development with less than ten units shall not be required to provide guest parking. A minimum of 75% of the spaces shall be in carports or garages.
(F) Location. With the exception of convalescent homes and congregate care facilities, senior citizen housing developments shall be located within reasonable proximity to the following services: food store, drugstore, transit stop, beauty parlor, barber shop, bank, restaurant, and post office. In lieu thereof, the project shall provide a van or minibus on a daily basis and free of charge to all project residents.
(G) Interior improvements. With the exception of convalescent homes, which shall be governed by state law, all units subject to this section shall be provided with the following interior improvements:
(1) Bathrooms. Bathrooms shall have grab bars provided around the bathroom stools and shower/tub areas. Shower/tubs shall be of a type with lowered sides to ease the step-over.
(2) Doorknobs and faucets. Doorknobs and faucets shall be of a type to offer easy operation by persons with limited physical disabilities such as arthritis.
(3) Laundry facilities. All individual living senior housing projects shall provide laundry facilities adequate to accommodate the number of units proposed within the project. The minimum number shall be one washer and one dryer per every nine units; however, in no case shall there be less than two washers and dryers provided in a project.
(4) Storage. All individual living senior housing projects shall provide for each unit a storage space. The location of the storage shall be external of the living unit.
(5) Stairs. With the exception of convalescent homes, which shall be governed by state law, all stairs for any development shall be designed to meet the needs of seniors. Double banisters shall be provided on all stairways.
(H) Processing. The following development processing procedures shall be applicable to all projects governed by this section:
(1) The applicant for a conditional use permit under this section shall present to the Planning Commission competent evidence, and the Planning Commission shall, before granting a conditional use permit under this section, find upon the evidence presented, that there is a need for additional housing for the seniors within the community, and that the housing for which a conditional use permit is requested under this section will meet at least in part such need for housing for the seniors.
(2) No one other than a senior person shall be the principal occupant or lessee of a unit constructed in accordance with this section. No person shall permit any person to violate this section. No person shall rent any housing for which a conditional use permit is required by this section to any person who unlawfully occupies the same in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(3) Before any conditional use permit granted pursuant to this section shall become effective, the owner of the property shall execute and record a covenant, approved as to form by the City Attorney, and by its terms binding upon the heirs, successors and assigns of the owner, requiring that all housing on the property be occupied solely by senior persons in accordance with the terms of this section.
(4) Before any conditional use permit granted pursuant to this section shall become effective, the owner of the property shall execute a development agreement which may include but not be limited to the following:
(a) Require all housing on the property be occupied solely by a senior person or persons as principal occupant or lessee in accordance with the term of this section;
(b) Require the developer to prepare a plan for property management and maintenance on a continuing basis approved by the city;
(c) Off-street parking provisions; and
(d) Restrictions relating to total number of units.
(`83 Code, § 17.44.170) (Ord. 94-03 § 6, 1994; Ord. 95-05 § 9, 1995; Ord. 2016-08 § 16, 2016)
