Monrovia Municipal Code § 17.44.054 Emergency shelters

§ 17.44.054 EMERGENCY SHELTERS.
(A) Development standards . The following development standards shall apply to emergency shelters:
(1) Property development standards . The emergency shelter shall conform to all property development standards of the zoning district in which it is located except as modified by these development standards.
(2) Maximum number of persons/beds . An emergency shelter for homeless persons shall contain no more than 20 beds and shall provide shelter for no more than 20 persons. The maximum number of beds may be accommodated in multiple emergency shelters with a combined capacity not to exceed 20 beds or persons.
(3) Parking . On-site parking shall be provided based on the following standards: one parking space for every 10 beds, plus ½ space for each bedroom designated for families with children, plus 1 parking space for each employee or volunteer on duty.
(4) Lighting . Adequate exterior lighting shall be provided for security purposes. The lighting shall be stationary and designed, arranged and installed so as to confine direct rays onto the premises and to direct light away from adjacent structures and public rights-of-way. External lighting shall be of intensity compatible with the neighborhood.
(B) Common facilities . The development may provide one or more of the following specific common facilities for the exclusive use of the residents:
(1) Central cooking and dining room.
(2) Recreation room.
(3) Laundry facilities to serve the number of occupants at the shelter.
(4) Other uses that are considered as ancillary to the primary use such as office, storage.
(C) Onsite staff . At least one manager shall be onsite during all hours of operation of the facility. Such manager must be an individual who does not utilize the shelter’s beds or other services and who resides off-site. The manager must be accompanied by one supporting staff member for every 10 beds occupied in the facility. Such staff members must be individuals who do not utilize the shelter’s beds or other services and who reside off-site.
(D) Security . Security personnel shall be provided during operational hours whenever clients are on the site. Security personnel are in addition to the staffing requirements in division (C). A security plan shall be submitted to the city prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(E) Concentration of uses . No more than one emergency shelter shall be permitted within a radius of 300 feet from another such emergency shelter.
(F) Emergency shelter operations . The agency or organization operating the emergency shelter shall comply with the following requirements:
(1) Each emergency shelter resident shall stay for no more than 90 days (cumulative, not consecutive) in a 365-day period. Extensions up to a total stay of 180 days in a 365-day period may be provided if no alternative housing is available.
(2) On-site client waiting and intake areas shall be located inside the building.
(3) The provider shall provide at the city’s request an annual report of the use of the facility and determination of compliance with city’s development standards for the use.
(Ord. 2014-01 § 11, 2014)
